[Music]
eight secrets Airport staff don't want
you to know airports can feel like
foreign countries with their own sets of
rules regulations and of course secrets
only the people working there know how
things really go down but that's all
about to change get ready for the
answers to some of the questions you've
always wanted to ask but never dare
number eight they're specially trained
to analyze off behavior most airports
have special experts called profilers
these people practice what's called spot
or the screening passengers by
observation technique they carefully
analyze facial expressions gestures and
behavior in order to detect suspicious
people their job is to notice the
nonverbal signs of anxiety such as
people licking their lips itching or
looking around a lot if a profiler
notices a person acting in a weird or
off way they can invite them for an
inspection where they talk to the person
to try to find out more about them
profilers work in both of the main halls
and in passport control the typical
question they ask is what's the purpose
of your visit then they can check the
person's reaction to this inquiry no
matter how reserved the passenger is if
they have something to hide
TSA officers will find out thanks to the
tiniest cues in people's behavior
number seven they know how aggressive
you are in a lot of big airports there
are special cameras that can detect a
certain level of aggression
these cameras transmit the information
to a computer and in cases of dangerous
levels of aggression like when a person
looks right on the screen the suspect
will be stopped by airport security for
a detailed inspection they're then
examined by a combination of remote
sensors infrared technologies and
flashing certain subliminal images this
way experts can detect an individual's
specific reactions by checking their
heart rate respiration and body
temperature perhaps one day we'll all go
through security checks without even
realizing
number six they have no idea what
happens to your luggage once it leaves
the airport most people at one point or
another have wanted to ask the question
what happens to my luggage and why is it
always so dirty well the short answer is
that Airport staff don't know once it
leaves your territory and they probably
don't really care sorry
baggage is sorted automatically scanners
scan the barcode and sort the baggage
according to its destination the three
main tasks of airport baggage handlers
is to move your bags from the check-in
area to the gate to move your bags from
one gate to another when you have a
connection and to move your bags from
the plane to the luggage claim area and
that's it so if your luggage doesn't
move fast enough it can be late for your
connecting flight or the exact opposite
your bag gets to your destination before
you do because you're stuck at passport
control another problem can arise if you
forget to tear off any old stickers
showing a different destination in this
case your scanner might send your
luggage to the wrong country
oops number five they have dogs that
check your bags before your luggage even
gets on the plane
it goes through five security levels and
one of them besides scanning the
contents include being checked by a
special dog that can sniff dangerous
chemicals it's a well known fact that a
dog's nose is much stronger than that of
any human in fact dogs distinguish
smells from 10,000 to a hundred thousand
times better than people do
no wonder airports take advantage of
this super sense for security and
regularly use these sniffer dogs to
detect suspicious substances what's
really cool is that you can't even
distinguish a detection dog from its
civilian brothers and sisters unlike
police dogs the ones working at airports
aren't trained to frighten or intimidate
people the most popular sniffer breeds
are golden retrievers labs and German
Shorthaired Pointers
number four your food is cooked around
the clock most airports are equipped
with giant kitchens where the food for
passengers is prepared these kitchens
usually cook food for different airlines
at once and since that also delightful
airplane food must be cooked about 6 to
10 hours in advance these kitchens have
to work 24/7 and however surprising it
might sound the menu for your flight is
developed up to a year in advance this
is a common practice for most airlines
because every single ingredient matters
and adds to expenses in fact American
Airlines managed to save 40 thousand
dollars after they removed just one
olive from every salad they served on
their flights
number three the airport controls the
planes more than you'd think
dispatchers not only control the planes
in the sky like you usually see in
movies they also control their movement
on the ground as well as the lighting on
the runways that's why there are three
types of air traffic controllers on
route terminal and tower each of these
dispatchers has their own specific area
of responsibility one dispatcher has
about five monitors and the information
on them is constantly changing
since the monitors show weather
conditions and information about other
planes talk about a stressful job number
two they most certainly will check the
validity of your visa no excuses if the
airport staff finds out that your visa
has expired or you just don't have one
when you enter their country you'll be
deported by the same airline that
brought you there not to mention they
have to foot the bill for the ticket as
well which means you can return home for
free that's why the people at the
check-in counters make sure you have a
valid visa to the country of your
destination because nobody wants to pay
for your flight
[Music]
number one they know what's in your
hands
airport staff sometime asked passengers
to rub their hands on a piece of cloth
before putting it into a special machine
it might sound kind of scary but it's
actually harmless you're simply being
checked by a machine called an atomizer
before their working day starts
employees put samples of dangerous
chemicals into the machine the Machine
memorizes these smells and in case of
persons hands smell like those chemicals
it alerts Airport staff to this danger
which of these facts surprised you the
most share this video with all your
friends so that they'll be in on these
big secrets to hit the like button if
this video is contributed to your
knowledge of flight procedures